# CyclePower
  A machine learning approach to factors affecting output of a power plant
  At the Colorado School of Mines, we would occasionally take a dive into fluid dynamics or heat transfer problems where regression of environmental factors affecting performance was to be solved.   The problem in question here is a two cycle power plant, where a bank of gas turbines generate electricity, while driving steam turbines downstream.  Data collected included Ambient temperature (AT), Exhaust Vacuum (V),  Ambient Pressure (AP), relative Humidity (RH), and the power output (PE).   From the Kaggle problem statement, the vacuum V is collected at the second (steam) stage.   
  The dataset is from Kaggle, but is nearly identical to problems solved while at Colorado School of Mines.   Back in those days, we didn't have nice R packages or machine learning to find the proper regression relationship between power output and the environmental variables - it had to be estimated by hand.   Let's use R to see if we can improve on the solution:
  An ideal regression analysis should look at: 1. Linearity of the relationship 2. Homoscedasticity (variance from the regression line should not change much along the range of the line) 3. Multi-variate Normality, 4, Independence of errors, and 5. lack of Colliniearity.   I am primarily interested in producing the best fit equation, based on root squared error (RSE), the adjusted R-squared, the F statistic, and the AIC (Aikeke Information criterion).  We will check the p scores for statstical significance and the AIC carefully.    For this quick-pass study, I will not be involving a proof of 1 thru 5 above in detail, but R can help us make visual judgements from the Q-Q and variance plots, whether we are violating any assumptions above.   Using R, we can look at colinearity as well.
  
